PAUL LEWIS: Jake, how
do you feel about banks?
JAKE ARCHIBALD: I feel
indifferent to banks.
PAUL LEWIS: OK.
How about one they
turned into a pub?
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Oh,
that's progress.
PAUL LEWIS: Yes.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Do you
know how to untar a file?
PAUL LEWIS: No.
I always check.
I never remember.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: See, I do.
It's T-A-R, tar, space, dash.
And your arguments are x, z, f.
PAUL LEWIS: OK.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: The way I
have of remembering this--
and someone else taught me this.
I think it's brilliant.
Because you're untarring--
x, z, f, Extract Zee Files.
It's perfect, right?
You will never forget that now.
PAUL LEWIS: No, I'm not
going to forget that now.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: So
I had to go and do
some work on an older project
of mine from some time ago.
PAUL LEWIS: I'm so sorry.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Right, exactly.
I don't know if you've
had this before where
you come to some older
code of your own,
and you're looking through
this project, and--
PAUL LEWIS: And you
have the Gandalf moment.
I have no memory of this place.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Exactly that.
It just was like someone
else had written it,
and they'd written it--
PAUL LEWIS: Not very well.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Like
a [INAUDIBLE] might.
It kind of made me feel
that even on a project where
I'm going to be the
only contributor,
or if I expect only me to be
the only contributor, even then,
maintainable code
is so important.
When I was at the BBC, we
had a pattern which I really
liked where before
we even started
on the implementation
of a part of a library
we were working on we
would first write the docs.
We'd write them in
line, which is not
entirely popular at the moment.
But I still liked having the
documentation really close
to the code.
Because when you
update one, it reminded
you to update the other.
But the way we did it is if we
were adding new functionality,
we would write the docs
first before any line of code
that showed off the function
signature, the arguments, what
it returned.
And that was the first
thing we would code review.
We would code review
the documentation
before any of the code.
And one of the things that
you would do as part of this
is write examples
of function usage.
And it happened loads where as
we were writing the examples,
we were like, this
isn't fit for purpose.
Now I'm actually pretending
to be a user of this function.
And I'm like, this is
actually really hard
to use for the common
stuff you'd use it for.
PAUL LEWIS: Because it's not
a particularly attractive part
of coding.
You're like, well, I'd
rather do the features.
I'd rather do the
new, exciting thing
than kind of make sure
that me six months from now
can read this code.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Well, if you
ever coded something in a way
that you kind of
step back from it,
and you think, oh, this
is only four lines now.
I'm very, very smart.
PAUL LEWIS: Yeah, I've
actually seen this a lot.
And it really bugs me, actually.
Because it's like,
I've got four functions
that do broadly related things.
So what I did instead is I
made this one mega function--
mega not in terms
of its quality,
but just in terms of how it
bakes all those four ideas down
into one thing. and then you
call it four different ways.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: I've got
one function that actually
produces the other function.
It's almost become self aware.
The code is now writing itself.
I'm so smart.
In many cases, just
doing it the simple way,
which might be a few lines
extra, it might even be slower.
But it's only worth
removing the maintainability
if the benefit is worth it,
like if that's a hot function,
if that's going to
be called a lot,
and the performance
benefit is worth it.
PAUL LEWIS: Yeah, absolutely.
There's micro-optimization
in some form there.
It's not worth doing otherwise.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: I
sometimes find that when
I'm reading code
for Python projects,
I find their code really,
really easy to read,
even though I know JavaScript
a whole lot better than I
know Python.
PAUL LEWIS: PEP 8.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: Do you think
as a JavaScript community,
we need to swallow
our pride with all
of these different techniques
of writing JavaScript,
and even if it's one we
all a little bit hate,
we have our own PEP 8?
PAUL LEWIS: I think what
you're tapping into is actually
the cultural requirement.
It can't just be, you can't
codify maintainable standards.
It actually has to
be something that's
baked into the people that
are working on the code,
that they want to keep
the technical debt low.
They want to make it easy for
themselves and for other people
and the people who join
the team to actually
be able to sort of contribute.
And I think it's a
crucially important thing.
JAKE ARCHIBALD:
Maintainable code is just
a better way of doing it.
PAUL LEWIS: To the heroes.
JAKE ARCHIBALD: The unsung
heroes of maintainable coding.
PAUL LEWIS: Cheers.
[MUSIC PLAYING]